automatic troubleshooting endpoint context docs (#728)
elastic/endpoint-package: package/endpoint/docs/knowledge_base/missed_checkins/windows_missed_checkins.md

## Common issues

### Endpoint process crash (dump file generated)

The Endpoint process can crash due to memory corruption, driver conflicts, or product bugs. When this happens, a crash dump file (`elasticendpoint.dmp`) is written to `C:\Program Files\Elastic\Endpoint\` or `C:\Program Files\Elastic\Endpoint\cache\CrashDumps\`. After a crash, the Endpoint service attempts to restart automatically, but if the crash is persistent (e.g. corrupted binary in memory), it can crash repeatedly — up to 15-16 times in quick succession — before Agent marks it as FAILED.

To investigate: check for `.dmp` files at the paths above. If a dump exists, run WinDbg with `!analyze -v` against it to identify the crash location. Check `logs-elastic_agent.endpoint_security-*` for patterns like `Aborting due to signal` or unhandled exception stack traces.

> If the crash is caused by memory corruption (corrupted `.text` section of the Endpoint binary, random bit flips), it may be a transient hardware issue. Run Windows Memory Diagnostic or memtest86 to check for bad DIMMs. If the crash recurs at the same code location, collect the dump and report to Elastic support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To investigate: check for `.dmp` files at the paths above. If a dump exists, collect it and report to Elastic support.
```

This was fixed in Endpoint 8.13.3.

To fix: upgrade to 8.13.3 or later. If the system is an English-locale Windows installation, this is not the cause.

### Port conflict on 6788/6789

Elastic Agent and Endpoint communicate over TCP ports 6788 and 6789 on localhost. If another process is already bound to one of these ports, Endpoint cannot establish its communication channel with Agent and will miss check-ins.

To check: run `netstat -ano | findstr "6788 6789"` on the affected host. If a non-Elastic process is listening on either port, it must be reconfigured to use a different port.

### Artifact download or verification failure causing mass unhealthiness

When Endpoint receives a new policy, it must download and verify user artifact manifests (trusted apps, exception lists, blocklists) from Fleet Server. If the artifact manifest is corrupted — for example, `compression_algorithm` is set to `none` instead of `zlib` due to a known stack bug fixed in 8.7.1 — Endpoint rejects all artifacts and the policy fails to apply. Logs show `All artifacts are being rejected because endpoint-trustlist-windows-v1 is invalid` and `Failed to process artifact manifest`.

> At scale, simultaneous policy pushes can also overwhelm Fleet Server, producing HTTP 429 responses and causing a cascading failure where all endpoints go unhealthy at once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At scale, simultaneous policy pushes can also overwhelm Fleet Server, producing HTTP 429 responses and causing a cascading failure where all endpoints go unhealthy at once. This issue with resolve itself over time.
```

---
type: automatic_troubleshooting
sub_type: missed_checkins
os: [Windows]
date: '2026-03-09'
---

## Symptom

> Elastic Agent reports the Endpoint component as `FAILED` or `DEGRADED` with the message "Failed: endpoint service missed 3 check-ins". The Endpoint may appear unhealthy in Fleet, and endpoint events, alerts, and metadata stop being ingested. In some cases thousands of endpoints go unhealthy simultaneously.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Symptom

The Agent appears `ORPHANED` in Fleet, and Endpoint policy changes do not apply nor response actions can execute. In some cases thousands of endpoints go unhealthy simultaneously.

## Summary

Elastic Endpoint has lost communication with Elastic Agent, but is still protecting the system according to last known policy and sends all events and alerts to the stack.

## Common issues

### Elastic Agent not running

Elastic Agent crashed, has been explicitly disabled or removed.

### Communication between Agent and Endpoint services not working

Elastic Agent reports the Endpoint component as `FAILED` or `DEGRADED` with the message "Failed: endpoint service missed 3 check-ins". For troubleshooting see next symptom below.

## Symptom

Elastic Agent appears `UNHEALTHY` in fleet and Elastic Defend integration indicates errors. Elastic Agent reports the Endpoint component as `FAILED` or `DEGRADED` with the message "Failed: endpoint service missed 3 check-ins". Endpoint events, alerts, and metadata stop being ingested. In some cases thousands of endpoints go unhealthy simultaneously.
```

This is a symptom of the same shutdown race condition described above. The partial uninstall corrupts the Endpoint's code signing state. The self-healing logic introduced in 8.4.3 attempts to repair on reboot, but the repair can itself fail on certain OS versions if the rollback zip file was created but the reinstall was interrupted.

To fix: follow the same remediation as for exit status 231 above. Upgrade to Agent 8.8.1+ to prevent the triggering race condition.

### Unicode conversion crash on non-English Windows (pre-8.13.3)

On Windows systems using non-English locales (confirmed on Chinese GB2312 and Korean editions), a unicode conversion bug causes the Endpoint process to crash in a loop immediately after startup. The crash occurs during kernel communication initialization and produces hundreds of restarts per log file. Agent reports the Endpoint as FAILED because it never completes startup.

> The bug is tracked in elastic/security#1973 and was fixed in Endpoint 8.13.3. Check the Endpoint logs for crash stack traces mentioning `CompletionPort.cpp` or `BigChief.cpp` during the `Connecting to minifilter` phase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
